HMSET "Bun Bo Hue" vietnameseName "Bún bò Huế" description "Bún bò Huế (pronounced [ɓun˧˥ ɓɔ˧˩ hwe˧˥]) or bún bò is a popular Vietnamese soup containing rice vermicelli (bún) and beef (bò). Huế is a city in central Vietnam associated with the cooking style of the former royal court. The dish is greatly admired for its balance of spicy, salty, and umami flavors. The predominant flavor is that of lemongrass. Compared to phở or bún riêu, the noodles are thicker and more cylindrical.\n\nBún bò originated in Huế, a former capital of Vietnam. Outside the city of Huế and some parts of central Vietnam, it is called bún bò Huế to denote its origin. Within Huế and surrounding cities, it is known simply as bún bò. The broth is prepared by simmering beef bones and beef shank with lemongrass, and then seasoned with fermented shrimp sauce and sugar for taste. Spicy chili oil is added later during the cooking process.\nBún bò usually includes thin slices of marinated and boiled beef shank, chunks of oxtail, and pig's knuckles. It can also include cubes of congealed pig blood, which has a color between dark brown and maroon, and a texture resembling firm tofu.\n\nBún bò is commonly served with lime wedges, cilantro sprigs, diced green onions, raw sliced onions, chili sauce, thinly sliced banana blossom, red cabbage, mint, basil, perilla, Persicaria odorata or Vietnamese coriander (rau răm), saw tooth herb (ngò gai) and sometimes mung bean sprouts. Thinly sliced purple cabbage is an acceptable substitute when banana blossoms are not available. Purple cabbage most resembles banana blossom in texture, though not in taste. Fish sauce and shrimp sauce are added to the soup according to taste. Ingredients might be varied by region due to their availability."

HMSET "Com Tam" vietnameseName "Cơm tấm" description "Cơm tấm or com tam (US: /kʌm təm/; Vietnamese: [kəːm tə̌m]) is a Vietnamese dish made from rice with fractured rice grains. Tấm refers to the broken rice grains, while cơm refers to cooked rice. Although there are varied names like cơm tấm Sài Gòn (Saigon-style broken rice), particularly for Saigon, the main ingredients remain the same for most cases.\n\nIn its early days, Com Tam was a popular dish among poor rice farmers in the Mekong Delta due to their economic circumstances. During bad rice seasons, these people didn't have enough good rice to sell, so they used broken rice to cook. Broken rice is fragments of rice grains broken during the handling processes and was regarded as inferior rice at the time. Broken rice was used solely because it was readily available in the farmers' houses and could fill their stomachs for a long time.\n\nSince Vietnam's urbanization in the first half of the 20th century, Com Tam became popular across Southern provinces, including Saigon. When Saigon was bustling with many people from many countries around the world, food sellers adapted Com Tam to be more suitable for foreign customers like the French, American, Chinese, and Indian. As a result, grilled pork, chả trứng (Vietnamese-style steamed omelet with pork) was added to Com Tam. Also, the portion started being served on plates with a fork instead of in traditional bowls with chopsticks. Nowadays, Com Tam is popular among everyone, and is a standardized part of the [Saigon] culture, so much that there is a common metaphorical saying (translated from Vietnamese): \"Saigon people eat Com Tam like Ha Noi people eat Pho\"."

HMSET "Banh Mi" vietnameseName "Bánh mì" description "Bánh mì or banh mi (/ˈbɑːn miː/, /ˈbæn/; Vietnamese: [ɓǎjŋ̟ mî]) is the Vietnamese word for bread. In Vietnamese cuisine, it also refers to a type of short baguette with thin, crisp crust and soft, airy texture inside that is often split lengthwise and filled with various savory ingredients like a submarine sandwich and served as a meal. Plain banh mi is also eaten as a staple food.\n\nA typical Vietnamese roll or sandwich is a fusion of meats and vegetables from native Vietnamese cuisine such as chả lụa (pork sausage), coriander leaf (cilantro), cucumber, pickled carrots, and pickled daikon combined with condiments from French cuisine such as pâté, along with chili and mayonnaise. However, a wide variety of popular fillings are used, from xíu mại to ice cream. In Vietnam, bread rolls and sandwiches are typically eaten for breakfast or as a snack.\nThe baguette was introduced to Vietnam in the mid-19th century, when Vietnam was part of French Indochina, and became a staple food by the early 20th century. During the 1950s, a distinctly Vietnamese style of sandwich developed in Saigon, becoming a popular street food, also known as bánh mì Sài Gòn (Saigon sandwich, Saigon-style banh mi). Following the Vietnam War, Overseas Vietnamese popularized the bánh mì sandwich in countries such as Australia, Canada and the United States. In these countries they are commonly sold in Asian bakeries.\n\nIn Vietnamese, the word bánh mì is derived from bánh (which can refer to many kinds of food, primarily baked goods, including bread) and mì (wheat). It may also be spelled bánh mỳ in northern Vietnam. Taken alone, bánh mì means bread, but also understood to be the Vietnamese baguette. Via synecdoche, it may also refer to the sandwich, with the term bánh mì kẹp or bánh mì thịt being used to disambiguate.\nA folk etymology claims that the word bánh mì is a corruption of the French pain de mie, meaning soft, white bread. However, bánh or its Nôm form 餅 has referred to rice cakes and other pastries since as early as the 13th century, centuries before French contact.\n\nMany restaurateurs, chefs, and food companies unfamiliar with the term misunderstand bánh mì to refer to the fillings (particularly the pickled radish and carrot) rather than the bread and sandwich, resulting in the term being incorrectly applied to bowls, soups, salads, and other inapplicable foods."

HMSET "Bun Rieu" vietnameseName "Bún riêu" description "Bún riêu is a traditional Vietnamese soup of clear stock and rice vermicelli. There are several varieties of bún riêu, including bún riêu cua (minced crab), bún riêu cá (fish) and bún riêu ốc (snail). This dish is well-known in the country and in the world.\n\nBún riêu cua is served with tomato broth and topped with minced freshwater crab. In this dish, various freshwater paddy crabs are used, including the brown paddy crab found in rice paddies in Vietnam. The crabs are cleaned to remove dirt and sand. Then crabs are pounded together with the shell on into a fine paste. This paste is strained and the crab liquid is a base for the soup along with tomato. The crab residue is used as the basis for crab cakes. Other ingredients for this dish include tamarind paste, fried tofu, mẻ or giấm bỗng (kinds of rice vinegar), Garcinia multiflora Champ., annatto seeds (hạt điều màu) to redden the broth, huyết (congealed pig's blood), split water spinach stems, shredded banana flower, rau kinh giới (Elsholtzia ciliata), spearmint, perilla, bean sprouts and chả chay (vegetarian sausage). This dish is rich in nutrition: calcium from the ground crab shells, iron from the congealed pig's blood, and vitamins and fiber from the vegetables.\n\n\"Bún riêu\" has a fresh sour flavor, so Vietnamese like to enjoy it in summer. There are many restaurants in Vietnam that sell this dish."

HMSET "Xoi" vietnameseName "Xôi" description "Xôi (Vietnamese pronunciation: [soj]) is a savory (mặn) or sweet (ngọt) Vietnamese dish made from glutinous rice and other ingredients. Xôi is a common on-the-go breakfast item, and a popular snack nationwide. Although it is often served as a breakfast or dessert, people also eat it at lunch or dinner as a main dish in many areas in Vietnam.\n\nSavory xôi are called xôi mặn in Vietnamese. They include the following varieties:\n\nXôi bắp - made with corn and smashed cooked mung beans\nXôi cá - fried fish xôi\nXôi chiên phồng - deep-fried glutinous rice patty\nXôi gà - with chicken\nXôi khúc - with mung bean filling with a coating of pandan leaves paste\nXôi lạc (northern Vietnamese name; called xôi đậu phộng or xôi đậu phụng in southern Vietnam) - made with peanuts\nXôi lam - cooked in a tube of bamboo of the genus Neohouzeaua and often served with grilled pork or chicken; a specialty of highland minority groups\nXôi lạp xưởng or xôi lạp xường - served with Chinese sausage, meat floss and boiled quail egg\nXôi pate - served with pâté and hams\nXôi sắn or xôi khoai mì - cooked with cassava\nXôi thập cẩm - subgum xôi\nXôi thịt kho - served with thịt kho tàu (caramelized pork and eggs)\nXôi trứng - served with fried eggs, caramelized eggs or omelette\nXôi xéo - served with smashed mung beans, fried onions, and rousong\nXôi xíu mại - served with siu mai\n\nSweet xôi are called xôi ngọt in Vietnamese. They include the following varieties:\n\nXôi bắp - made with corn, sugar, fried onions, and smashed cooked mung beans\nXôi đậu đen - made with black urad beans\nXôi đậu xanh - made with mung beans\nXôi dừa - made with coconut\nXôi gấc - made with the aril and seeds of the gấc fruit\nXôi lá cẩm (also called xôi tím) - made with the magenta plant\nXôi lá cẩm đậu xanh - made with the magenta plant and mung beans\nXôi lá dứa - made with pandan leaf extract for the green color and a distinctive pandan flavor\nXôi lam - cooked in a tube of bamboo of the genus Neohouzeaua and often served with sesame seeds and salt; a specialty of highland minority groups\nXôi lúa - with boiled waxy maize, fried shallot and mung bean paste\nXôi nếp than - made with black glutinous rice\nXôi ngũ sắc - 5-colored xôi: purple from the leaf extract of the magenta plant, green from pandan leaf, red from gấc fruit, yellow from mung beans, and the white color of natural glutinous rice\nXôi nhộng - made with silk worms\nXôi sầu riêng - made with durian\nXôi vị - hard cooked xôi with pandan leaves.\nXôi vò - the glutinous rice grains do not stick together in this type of xôi, as they are coated with ground peeled-and-boiled mung beans\nXôi xiêm - cooked with coconut juice\nXôi xoài - made with coconut milk and fresh ripe mango; of Thai origin"